after some very unpopular moves lately
Sony has finally dropped a welcome
surprise on their fans the eagerly
awaited PS5 Pro and while most of what
they covered was fairly predictable
we've seen this one before there was one
big surprise too bad it was a bad one
the
$700 price by the time you buy a stand
sold separately this thing is
dangerously close to double the price of
a base PS5 and darn near what the
average American is spending on their
car
payment but in my characteristic way
here comes an unpopular take while I'm
disappointed by the cost and I want
gaming to be accessible to everyone I
don't think we should be that shocked
adjusting for inflation this isn't even
Sony's most expensive console and with
the serious lack of competition in both
the gaming GPU space not to mention the
bigger lack of competition in the
console space I feel like this was sort
of inevitable just like our sponsor
Ridge their massive Hennessy sweep
Stakes is now live and you can win a
Hennessy Velociraptor a goldplated cyber
truck or $100,000 cash all you need to
do is use our link to get a free entry
and get one bonus entry with every
dollar you
spend I can't believe this is a
conversation we're having but PS5 Gamers
what would you rather do spend
$700 on a new single-purpose closed
ecosystem box that requires a
subscription to connect online with a
frankly pretty short list of true
exclusives or upgrade your PC with the
excellent Radeon 7900 XT that's right
those are the same price and even if you
don't have a PC how about a killer
secondhand machine with a brand new 7800
XT it's the same $700 price what is
going on here consoles used to
absolutely slam PCS when it comes to
gaming value and what's really funny
here is they still do this is something
we explored very recently in our PS5
killer video where we did kind of kill
it but only by cutting some pretty big
Corners so then Sony in order to justify
the PS5 Pro you better have something
seriously impressive under the hood
let's take a look
the tldr of the presentation is what
Sony broke down into the big three and
number one is more RAW graphics
rendering power they have dramatically
increased the number of compute units or
cus from 36 to 60 that levels up the GPU
from about equivalent to a 5-year-old
card to being on par with something
modern with Sony promising a 45% uplift
but bigger GPU doesn't tell the whole
story here cuz number two is too two to
three times better raid tracing
performance and that's the one that's
most interesting to me personally back
when Sony was designing the PS5 AMD was
realistically Generations behind Nvidia
when it came to real-time retraced
lighting and while they haven't closed
the Gap yet at least on their gpus Sony
disclosed that the PS5 Pro will use a
ray tracing engine that AMD has not yet
shown us in their own GPU lineup so
these two things alone could be a pretty
strong onew punch to drive 4K frame
rates up to 60 FPS while simultaneously
improving visual Fidelity and we're not
done yet number three is a new machine
learning upscaling technology they're
calling PlayStation spectral super
resolution based on the name it's safe
to say that we're looking at something
similar to nvidia's dlss which allows a
game to be rendered at a lower
resolution then upscaled using a model
that was trained on higher resolution
renders I can actually imagine this
working really well on the PS5 Pro
thanks to the predictable Hardware
platform not to mention the relatively
smaller number of games to train it on
but of course that's all speculation on
my part since Sony was very light on the
details which was kind of a theme of the
whole presentation Sony may have called
this a technical presentation but when
you compare it to the nearly hourong and
legitimately deeply technical briefing
that they gave us back in 2020 I'm
feeling a little bit like they got the
color wrong on their iconic ball-shaped
button for starters it was less than 10
minutes long and that included the parts
where Mark Cy was narrating over
gameplay footage of remarkably older
titles I mean In fairness I guess it is
a pretty simple sales pitch that PS5 Pro
owners will no longer need to choose
between the Fidelity of a high
resolution mode or the smoothness of a
performance mode with the juice to give
you the Best of Both Worlds at once or
at least
like both worlds with Graphics showing
something like Fidelity levels of detail
to be clear I respect that Sony is
setting very realistic expectations like
the PS4 Pro this is not a new generation
product it's a midli cycle upgrade and
based on the now substantiated leaks
from earlier this year it looks like
it's almost entirely focused on the GPU
both the CPU and the SSD look to be
nearly identical in terms of performance
to the base model all of which makes a
lot of sense I mean it'd be pretty dumb
to push a big architectural change that
might cause compatibility issues but as
a technophile it also just felt like a
bit of a letdown to spend the first 10%
of the presentation going through the
six key features of the original PS5 if
you're going to ultimately leave
two-thirds of them untouched and the two
that you did upgrade are pretty much the
same thing speaking of letdowns no one
buys PlayStations for the hardware guys
so what are they doing showing off a new
console without any new games I think a
lot of the online anger would have been
mitigated if this presentation was
punctuated with some gameplay of a new
visually enticing title that isn't going
to be recalled two weeks later I mean
we've jokingly referred to the PS5 as
the PS4 more Pro because some of the
best PS5 experiences are just PS4 games
running at higher frame rates and so I
guess with no new games to speak of
we're stuck calling the PS5 Pro the PS4
more prer all of which is fine I guess
if it wasn't for that big sticking point
the price but again I think it's an
expectation problem the PS4 Pro when it
launched was
$400 just $100 more than its
contemporary slim model and by the way
equal to the regular PS4's launch price
when Sony did that they set an
expectation that the console will go
down in price and the pro will slot in
to replace it an expectation that's no
longer realistic the PS5 has grown up in
a very different economic reality than
its predecessors and the Cal hard truth
is that while Sony's Hardware costs have
fallen Electronics manufacturing doesn't
get cheaper nearly the way that it used
to combine that with some other recent
business challenges and Sony might just
not be in the mood to take big losses on
Hardware with the Assumption they're
going to make it up in the near future
on games so with that in mind it looks
to me like they're just keeping the
margin structure pretty much flat and
giving us about 250 bucks worth of
bigger SSD and GPU for about 250 bucks
so what do you want well more
competition probably I mean if Microsoft
was bringing their aame or the switch 2
existed Sony might be willing to get
more aggressive but as it is now they
have not only not bothered to drop
pricing on the original PS5 they've
actually increased pricing in some
regions and with Sony leading the market
I don't see that changing anytime soon
so what's the good news Well if you
watched the side-by-side footage and you
couldn't tell the difference you're not
alone and that's kind of good news if
the visual upgrades don't mean that much
to you you can just save 250 bucks and
still buy the base model the PS5 really
is still four years later a great
machine for the price David the writer
for this video has hundreds of hours on
his and I think that's exactly who Sony
is targeting David are are you going to
buy one yeah predictable I can't say
that I agree with the decision but I
can't control what people spend their
paychecks on what I can control is
making sure they get their paychecks
with this message from our sponsor
course hair maybe you're a fashion
Pioneer pushing the boundaries of style
with your socks and sandals and that's
awesome but even if you're not Corsair
makes it easy to bring style to your
gaming setup with Corsair custom lab you
can create a setup that's as unique as
you are start with something like their
K65 plus wireless keyboard then find a
set of key caps that screams you from
there why not add a mouse and a mouse
pad to tie everything together corser
handles all the heavy lifting just make
your Custom Creation they will build it
and ship it right to your doorstep we're
going to have a link in the video
description where you can learn more if
you guys enjoyed this video and you
especially like to see us take on Sony
head-on check out the PS5 killer video
where we build a PC for the price of an
original PS5 boy that would have sure
been easier to do with an extra 200
bucks hey